Document new status endpoints #498 (#499)
enonic/doc-xp: docs/runtime/statistics.adoc

}
----
This view gives a brief overview of the nodes in the Hazelcast cluster. Check Hazelcast documentation for more details.

=== Health check
image:xp-7130.svg[XP 7.13.0,opts=inline]

 GET http://<host>:2609/health

Health check validates that essential data services are available and ready to serve requests.

Successful returns an empty response with `200` status code. Failed check returns `503` status code with the list of errors:
[source, json]
----
{
    "errors": [
      "org.elasticsearch.client.Client service in not available"
    ]
}
----

=== Readiness check
image:xp-7130.svg[XP 7.13.0,opts=inline]

 GET http://<host>:2609/ready

Readiness check validates that all services needed for the instance to be fully operational are available and ready to serve requests.

> Successful returns an empty response with `200` status code. Failed check returns `503` status code with the list of errors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Successful validation will return an empty response with `200` status code. Failed validation will return `503` status code with the list of errors:
```

[source, json]
----

{
    "errors": [

>       "com.enonic.xp.portal.websocket.WebSocketManager service in not available",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "com.enonic.xp.portal.websocket.WebSocketManager service is not available",
```
